<h1>Deep-Syntactic Parser</h1>

<ul>
  <li>Download of the Deep-Syntactic Parser: <a href="https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B8nESzOdPhLsS1lIZDJtbWdMVXc/edit?usp=sharing">deepParser.jar</a>
</li>
  <li>Download of the evaluation script: <a href="https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B8nESzOdPhLsa3NIei1ZX0QwMkE/edit?usp=sharing">evaluation.jar</a>
</li>
</ul>

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This package contains the implementation of the system described in (Miguel Ballesteros, Bernd Bohnet, Simon Mille and Leo Wanner. Deep-Syntactic Parsing. COLING 2014)

<h3>USAGE - training and parsing.</h3>

<pre> java -jar deepParser.jar -s surfacetreebank -d deeptreebank -st surfaceinput -t 1 </pre>

this would train a model and parse a surface input. It would produce a file "dsynt_final_output.conll" which is the output of the system.

<h3> USAGE - only parsing. </h3>

If you want to parse with an existing training model, you can use the following command.

<pre> java -jar deepParser.jar -s surfacetreebank -d deeptreebank -st surfaceinput -t 0 </pre>

It would produce a file "dsynt_final_output.conll" which is the output of the system.
Note that you should call it from the same folder in which you trained the model.

------------

<h3> EVALUATION </h3>

<pre> java -jar Evaluation.jar -g deepgold -s deepoutput </pre>

--------------------------------------------------

If you want to use the whole pipeline, you should train a surface model with the joint parser, pos-tagger and morphology tagger. See, https://code.google.com/p/mate-tools/wiki/ParserAndModels
and then use its output as the input of the deep-syntactic parser.

Important note:
  -> The Deep-Syntactic parser has as input <a href="https://ufal.mff.cuni.cz/conll2009-st/task-description.html">CoNLL09 data format files</a>.
It uses the following columns as input/features: (1) Form, (2) Lemma, (3) Pos (4) Feat, (5) Head, (6) Deprel. That is, columns 0, 1, 2, 4, 5, 7 and 9. 
This means that the input should have this columns filled and it should be correctly formatted.

If you have any questions or issues, please do not hesitate to contact <a href="miguelballesteros.com>Miguel Ballesteros</a> (miguel.ballesteros@upf.edu)

--------------------------------------------------

Miguel Ballesteros, Bernd Bohnet, Simon Mille and Leo Wanner.